python introduction_2:-

Features of python:-

1.simple and easy to learn:-

*.python is a simple programming lang.when we read python program,we can fell like reading english statement.

*.The syntaxes(rules)are very simple.

*.When compared with other languages,we can write programs with very less number of lines.Hence python is more readability and simplicity.

*. We can reduce developement and cost of the project.

2.Freeware and Open source:-

*. We can use python software without any licence and it is freeware.

*. Its source code is open ,so that we can customize based on our requirement.

*. python software org, is a charity.

3.High level programming language.

*.Python is high level programming lang.and hence it is programmer friendly lang.Being a programmer we are not required to concentrate low level activities like memory management and security.

4.platform independent and Portability:-

*.Once we write a python program,it can run on ant platform without rewriting once again. Internally PVM(python vertual machine) is responsible to convert into machine understable form.

*.Python programs are portable that is we can migrate from one platform to another platform very easily.Python programs will provide same result on any platform.


5.Dynamically type:-

In python we are not required to declare type for variables.Whenever we are assinging the value,based on value,type will be allocated automatically.hence python is considered as dynamically typed lang.

But java and c etc. are statically typed languages coz we have to provide type at the begining only.

6.Both prodcedure oriented(scripting) and object oriented:-

Python lang. support both prodcedure oriented(like C,pascal etc) and object oriented(like c++,java) features,Hence er can get benefits of both like secutity and resuability etc.

7.Extensive Libarary:-

Python has a rich inbulit library.
Being a programmer we can use this library directly and use as per the requirement.

Note:- Now a days atleast 60k library are exits in python


  Limitations of python

 1.Not using for mobile application.
 2.Not using for Bank application and Telecom application


 Flavors of python:-

 1.CPython:-
 It is the standard flavor of python, it can used to work with C lang. application.

 2.Jython or JPython: java

 3.IronPython: Dot net

 4.RubyPython:- Ruby platform

 5.AnacondaPython:- Datascience and Data analysis

 6.PyPy: The main adv. of PyPy is performace will ve improced coz JIT complier is avaliable inside PVM.


Python version:-

python 1.0v introduced in jan 1994
python 2.0v introduced in Oct 2000
python 3.0v introduced in dec 2008

current version:- python3 -------3.9.0
				  python2 --------2.9.4


Note:- But in the industry we can use python3.6 and python 2.7







